# CITRUS-2024
This is the code I did for my research project while apart of the CITRUS 2024 program.

My project, Detecting Patterns and Trends of Influenza A in the USA, was developed under the mentorship of the CyberInfrastructure TRaining for Undergraduates in Summer (CITRUS) program at the University of Hawaii. CITRUS is a research opportunity in a REU-style immersion to develop skills in CyberInfrastructure with a climate-based research project. The program entailed learning and developing data science skills which would then be applied as each mentee carried out their own research project surrounding a topic and data set of their choosing.

My topic focused on the intermingling of health and climate which led me towards wanting to apply data science techniques to identify patterns and trends of Influenza A in the USA. The research question I based my findings around was, “Are there any consistent patterns in the timing and intensity of influenza A seasons?”. I was able to find a dataset from the World Health Organization which had data on Influenza A cases in the USA from 1997 to 2024. I then cleaned the data, which included dropping columns and rows that were not relevant to this research question and filling in missing values. I then graphed my findings to provide a visual understanding of the data and applied various statistical tests (such as chi-squared and Kruskal-Wallis) to gain deeper insight to my question.

This project was completed by myself with the guidance of my graduate mentors that would be done through daily check-ins to see the progress of my research project. It gave me an opportunity to refine my data science coding skills and gave me an opportunity to apply research techniques. To be eligible to participate in this program I had to acquire a CITI conduct of research certificate that shows I understand the ethics behind researching. This program also let me develop my communication skills which were necessary when it came to sharing my findings through a final presentation conducted at the end of the program.

